---
layout: post
title: Distractions
date: '2005-10-25T21:30:00.000-07:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags: 
modified_time: '2005-10-25T21:30:25.480-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-113030102544784585
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2005/10/distractions.shtml
---

In [this article](http://ftrain.com/Followup.html), [Paul 
Ford](http://ftrain.com/PaulFord.html) expounds on his new-found techniques 
for avoiding the innumerable distractions that crowd in to our modern lives; I 
hadn't seen the [AlphaSmart Neo](http://www1.alphasmart.com/products/neo.html) 
(and [Dana](http://www1.alphasmart.com/products/dana-w.html)) before his 
mention, and was amazed at how closely the concept, as executed by AlphaSmart, 
matched the requirements my brother and I had set out in a discussion a few 
nights ago.  We recognized the need for a rugged (bordering bomb-proof), 
reliable, simple device with great text-entry usability for warlespondence, 
adventure travel, and similarly rugged duties.  We further noted the utility 
of such a device for those interested in distilling their daily exposure to 
technology and media down to a more manageale, less distracting level, focused 
on the creative process.  We spec'd out the basic requirements for a great 
keyboard, reasonable display of text (but much less than the usual laptop 
screen), network connectivity including modem, loooong battery life, and 
removable flash memory... imagine my surprise to find *almost exactly that 
device* already being made by AlphaSmart. 



But Ford's broader premise rings true for me, also -- I increasingly find 
myself using retro-tech software to accomplish the tasks I value most.  A case 
in point: writing technical papers.  I've pretty much given up on MS Word 
(although I still hold out hope for the complete redesign of the UI promised 
by the [next release of 
Office](http://www.microsoft.com/office/preview/uioverview.mspx); call me a 
sucker.)  Every time I try to take advantage of the supposedly time- and 
effort-saving features in Word, I get burned.  So, after years of threatening 
to do so, I finally bit the bullet and switched (back) to 
[LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/).  The learning curve's a bit steep in 
some areas, but I think I'll only have to deal with it once, and I'm finding 
(as I hoped) that I end up with a much (MUCH) more reliable process to get a 
print-ready document than with Word, and that translates directly into time 
savings, less stress, and an increased focus on document content rather than 
appearance. 



I'm happy to have a [modern machine](http://www.apple.com/powerbook/) on which 
to work, and the nuances a modern [text 
editor](http://www.barebones.com/products/bbedit/index.shtml) brings to the 
party, but it's also satisfying to know that the basic ASCII text documents 
I'm writing could be used on any of a huge variety of hardware and software to 
re-create the finished product, and I can always go back to writing/editing 
using good 'ol [vi](http://www.vim.org/). 