---
layout: post
title: Day 9
date: '2008-10-06T01:02:00.001-07:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags:
- chad
- travel
- libertine
- sailing
modified_time: '2008-10-06T10:52:22.848-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-4377071461624681410
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2008/10/day-9.html
---

We went explored around Cuevo Valdez a bit - this part of Santa Cruz  
Island is owned by The Nature Conservancy, so some parts are posted  
off limits as private property. We were able to see a marvelous hidden  
waterfall, accessed through a sea-tunnel, as well as the sea-cave for  
which the cove is named. It is interesting for its three entrances  
into a central cave; we took the skiff into one of them.

The day was 
very nice and warm, and we even went for a swim after all  our hiking 
around. Soon it was happy hour, and we enjoyed some snacks  on deck and 
appreciated the calm air and pleasant sun. However, a  breeze started 
coming up as the weather shifted around to the NW -  pretty quickly, there 
was a stiff wind. We had put out both bow and  stern anchors, to steady us 
against the previous night&#39;s swell, and  now the anchor configuration 
caused the boat to turn sideways to the  freshening wind. This caused the 
bow anchor to start dragging... We  wouldn&#39;t be safe in the anchorage 
under these conditions, so we  decided to pull up the anchors and go down 
to a more protected spot  around the west end of the island.

Will 
started getting the skiff ready to go get the stern anchor picked  up, as 
I motored Libertine to take the strain off the bow anchor. As  Will cast 
off the skiff&#39;s stern line, the bow attachment fitting chose  that 
moment to come undone... and the skiff started going rapidly  downwind, 
much to our astonishment! Will dove in after it, and climbed  aboard. 
Fortunately, we had left the oars on the skiff, so Will could  get back to 
us... otherwise, he might still be on the island :-)

We eventually got both 
anchors, the skiff, and Will back on board and  departed around 6 pm under 
increasing winds.

We made our way down the coast of the island, with big 
wind and  following swell making for a wild ride; we finally made it to  
Smuggler&#39;s Cove around 11 pm, wind blowing 30 knots but offshore.  
There were at least a dozen other boats in the anchorage, not too bad  
in the daylight but tricky to navigate in the dark. We put the anchor  
out as close in to the beach as we could, and had some quick soup for  
dinner and went to bed. 
