---
layout: post
title: Days 12 and 13
date: '2008-10-08T16:11:00.000-07:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags: 
modified_time: '2008-10-08T16:13:51.063-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-3320247773327276284
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2008/10/days-12-and-13.html
---

We sailed from SB yesterday morning; was sunny &amp; calm &amp; smooth up to  
point conception, then a headwind and big steep waves all night.  
Trying to get a nap in the forward berth was like an amusement park  
ride, I was catching air when we went over the biggest waves! We got  
in to Port San Luis at 5 this morning, just beat and in need of rest  
and food. It is incredibly warm, no wind. Will and I just got back  
from getting fuel; the Coast Guard brought in a sailboat that got  
clobbered today - reports are of 40-knot winds through Saturday! So,  
(a) our choice to come up last night looks comparatively good, but (b)  
now we have to play it day by day and see if there&#39;s a break in the  
high winds. We&#39;ll definitely be here tonight, though.

Coming by 
Vandenberg air force base (on the coast just south Santa  Maria) last 
night in the dark was interesting - they have numerous  space &amp; 
missile launch complexes all lit up, for miles along an  otherwise 
desolate coast. I had the 10-2am watch, and enjoyed the  brilliant stars 
and bioluminescent bow waves once the half-full moon  set.

I woke this 
morning to find that the yummy organic nectarines I bought  fresh in SB, 
and carefully stowed in the netting slings we use to keep  all the 
produce, were dashed against the wall during the night&#39;s  adventures 
and the juice proceeded to drip all over my sleeping bag...  Bleah! Seems 
to have cleaned up nicely though. 
