---
layout: post
title: Suffering for the cause
date: '2011-05-24T22:27:00.000-07:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags:
- bike
modified_time: '2011-05-24T22:27:02.694-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-6353775000487859759
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2011/05/suffering-for-cause.html
---

Last week, the Amgen Tour of California bike race came through town. Last 
year, we went to watch the local stage, and despite the rain/drizzle/general 
wetness, had a fun time hanging out with friends and new acquaintances on the 
side of the road. We had such a fine time, in fact, that we figured we just 
*had* to do it again this year. 
<!--more-->

Besides, the route was heading over one of our very favorite local mountain 
roads - Mt. Hamilton - so we'd have a great excuse get a nice ride in, to go 
up the hill and check out the race. By the day of the event, however, the 
crummy weather that had caused the cancellation of the first stage of the tour 
was making a reprise; despite the forecast of a nice afternoon it was looking 
quite dark and slightly damp. 

To top it off, I had come down with a bronchial cough and lethargy-inducing 
cold. My body said I should stay in bed, although my heart really wanted to 
get outside and enjoy the day. What to do, what to do... 

My compromise: do both! I slept for a couple hours after breakfast, then 
roused myself enough to get my bike clothes on and get going. Anna packed up a 
thermos of hot tea and some lunch items, and off we went. 

We saw a few people on bikes as we pedaled up Mt. Hamilton, but most of them 
were coming *down* the hill. 39 F and wet at the top, one of them reported. 
Some of the riders had ridden up from our side of the hill, and then came back 
down when the conditions turned raw. Others had started early, and were riding 
the whole race route ahead of the peloton. Later, while we were having lunch, 
I spotted former pro Chris Carmichael riding with a group. 

I certainly didn't set any records going up the hill. We sort of doddered 
along at a speed that allowed my congested lungs to keep working, but it was 
tough to let everyone pass... I did my best to just smile and wave. We called 
a halt at Joe Grant park, maybe a third of the way up the climb and a nice 
open spot to watch the race. 

We hung out for a while and enjoyed our lunch -- Anna had packed quite the 
gourmet picnic. The light that filtered through the thick but broken clouds 
was dramatic, and we enjoyed hanging out, talking with the other 
race-watchers, and watching the hawks ride the winds. 

Finally the race came through, dramatic as a big group of riders always seems 
to be. It took a while, as the peloton was shattered after the big climb on 
the back side of the mountain. Eventually, all the riders and associated 
vehicles cleared out, and we packed up and headed back down the hill. 

There was a small group of locals having a BBQ just a half mile down the road 
from the park; they were having a fine time standing at the side of the road, 
drinking a few cans of beer and watching the goings-on. I called out for a 
hand-up as I cruised by, and got a can enthusiastically (and quite 
competently) passed over. To their great cheers, I had a mighty swig and 
hopefully gave them something fun to add to their bike-race experience! 

The ride back down the hill was (as always) great fun - we caught up to one 
guy, and he trailed me most of the way down the hill. The wind was gusting, 
and the pack on my back I brought to carry the extra layers I needed to sit 
around at lunch, was catching the crosswind, making the corners extra 
challenging. I overcooked one tricky corner a bit, but recovered it, and had a 
fine, fast run to the bottom. 

We watched the TV coverage of the race later, and I was surprised to see a 
bunch of the pros have problems with that very same corner - several guys went 
right off the road there! So I didn't feel quite such the fool for having 
misjudged it myself. 

It's a week later, and I haven't hardly been on the bike since; my cough is 
still with me. But I'm sure glad I got out there and suffered enough to see 
the race. 
