---
layout: post
title: Dear Sir
date: '2013-12-03T19:52:00.000-08:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags:
- rant
- idiots
- bike
- transportation
modified_time: '2013-12-03T19:52:51.322-08:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-8101202251102573572
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2013/12/dear-sir.html
---

Dear Sir, 

I'm really sorry for not reacting more maturely to your nearly killing me with 
your car. 

I'm sure that you didn't intentionally make a right turn into your driveway so 
close to me that, had I not braked and swerved, I would surely have been 
crushed under the wheels of your automobile. Probably my suggestion of a 
creative but improbable use of your presumed anatomical features was uncalled 
for, and for that I apologize. I was incited to this level of reaction by your 
assertion that you "didn't believe you came very close" and that "in the grand 
scheme of things, it's not that big a deal" to be nearly run over and killed. 
<!--more-->

Surely it wasn't the cell phone on which you were talking at the time that 
distracted you from seeing my incredibly bright taillight, my reflective 
clothing, the electroluminescent wire festooning my bike's frame, the two 
glowing-green lights spinning in my bike's wheels, and my 
brighter-than-the-sun headlamp. And I recognize that it takes additional 
coordination to both talk on the phone and use the turn signals (except you 
didn't seem to bother with that part) while managing to turn into your 
driveway, all at the same time, without so much as colliding with anything 
except, almost, with a cyclist. 

So you're quite right, Dear Sir, to respond to my calm inquiry as to what 
possible reason you might have had for coming so close to running me over by 
saying that you had nothing to say to me. That's OK. I didn't really expect 
you to interrupt your important phone call (which you didn't, anyway, while we 
conversed in your driveway.)  I just wanted to share with you why I really had 
been hoping for more, riding down the festively-lit street full of Christmas 
cheer. It all looked so happy and full of the Christmas spirit - you know, 
goodwill to all, tidings and cheer, neighborly. 

But Dear Sir, I noticed, those festive lights belong to your neighbors, and 
their neighbors, and really most all of the other houses in the neighborhood, 
but not yours. I'm sure your importance (as evidenced by the need to be on the 
phone at all times) precludes participating in the holiday spirit. Or perhaps, 
you've been so beaten down by the ever-present holiday trappings of your 
neighbors, since they have now been up for all of two days. So I will gladly 
cut you some slack and assume that your blasé response to my query was just 
because you were busy and not paying attention to anything around you, 
including me on my bike. 

After all, I ride by your house twice a day, every single workday. I'm sure 
I'll have lots of good chances to observe your progression into madness, 
delusion, and self-loathing as the Christmas cheer merrily eats into your 
brain. 

I do hope you'll accept my sincerest apologies for not having more patience, 
and 

Merry Christmas! 

--chad 

