---
layout: post
title: The Decline and Fall of the Cell Phone
date: '2013-12-03T18:59:00.000-08:00'
author: BikeBoy
tags:
- technology
- design
- history
modified_time: '2013-12-03T18:59:53.446-08:00'
thumbnail: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-DCw22cXgdkc/TvKRZwLO4yI/AAAAAAAABkA/3CEuqxUoz74/s72-c/IMG_1131.JPG
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5444398.post-4883949699788774910
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.chadfrost.com/2013/12/the-decline-and-fall-of-cell-phone.html
---

(Another post from the Wayback machine, found stuck in the blogpost "drafts" - 
this from two years ago, around this time of year.) 

My daughter was cleaning out some of her old toys and stuff (in anticipation, 
I guess, of the forthcoming Christmas arrival of new toys and stuff) and 
decided it was time to part with this.

{% maincolumn 'assets/img/microtac.jpg' 'Motorolaâ€™s Micro T.A.C. Lite' %}

I gave her this old phone a few years ago; it had been sitting in my parts 
bin, and I thought it would make a great "play phone" -- and it did, until 
this year it was outgrown and replaced with a desire for a _real_ cell phone 
(no, Santa's definitely not bringing a nine-year-old a cell phone for 
Christmas...) 

Looking at the phone, which represented the state-of-the-art when I bought it 
back in the early 1990s, I found myself musing on what had happened to cell 
phones since then. 

<!--more-->

This "[Micro T.A.C. Lite Digital Personal 
Communicator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motorola_MicroTAC)" was the first 
of the "small" phones - small enough to stuff in a jeans pocket, or in a 
purse. It was the lightest cell phone ever, at 7.7 oz. Prior to this, cell 
phones were twice the size. It looks big **now**, but this phone represented a 
huge leap forward. The battery life was OK, but the phone was truly portable, 
and broke new ground. 

It was also tough, in a nearly-unbreakable way. My phone wasn't treated with 
kid gloves, and it still looks pretty much like new. 

And, it was a good phone. It worked well. It **felt** good - the materials had 
a feeling of quality, it sat nicely in the hand, the distance from earpiece to 
the end was sized to match the human head. It was the cellular, mobile analog 
of the classic [Ma Bell desktop 
phone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_500_telephone), ubiquitous across 
America for a couple of generations. 

All of these things can also be said of the next phone I bought, also from 
Motorola - the Star TAC. It, too, represented a big leap forward (or 
downward?) in size and weight, and was still convenient to use in the hand; 
somehow, Motorola kept the toughness of the Micro TAC, for the Star TAC felt 
equally indestructible. 

These phones were from the time when phones were just phones - they were 
expected to do one thing well, and (mostly) they did, and kept doing it better 
over time. They got smaller, their batteries lasted longer, but the basic 
functionality (it's a phone!) stayed the same. 

Eventually, though, two things happened: consumers wanted (or, perhaps, 
technology companies decided to sell to consumers) ever-smaller devices, and 
phones took on more and more functionality. The very simple phonebook feature 
of these early Motorolas led to addressbooks, simple games, a calculator, 
text-messaging... a slippery slope. Soon enough, the fairly short list of 
features that made a truly great phone (robustness, a bright, clear display, 
good audio quality, long battery life, and a nice feel in the hand) was almost 
entirely pushed aside in preference to miniaturization, sleekness, size and 
color and quantity of the display(s), and number of secondary functions the 
device could perform (games, music player, calendar, to-do list, etc.) 

I think we are, in some cases, starting to drift back towards good 
functionality of cell phones **as** phones. But Motorola and Nokia, once the 
dominant designers and manufacturers of truly good phones, seem to have fallen 
by the wayside, casualties of the market's whims. I don't hear consumers 
clamoring for fewer features in their phones, but perhaps a bit of recognition 
that the absolute sleekest, thinnest, most-stylish phone is not necessarily 
the most useful phone... 

Anna says, this is the same thing that happened to toaster ovens (and, I 
suspect, many many other appliances, and other consumer products.) 
